In the last lecture, you learned about how to manage caches with different versions and how to update
the sw.js
file, let's now optimize this.
Instead of repeating ourselves and having to edit this name manually which of course is error prone,
we can simply add some variable at the top. I'll name it cache static and I simply use uppercase characters
here to indicate that this is like a constant which I won't change,
so cache static name maybe, of course name this whatever you like
and here, I would simply name is static-v4 which will be the next version I use.
Of course, you could also go with cache static version and then combine the name with static-version
variable, whatever you like,
I'll go with this approach.
I'll do the same for the dynamic one, cache dynamic name will be dynamic-v2 actually here
and of course you're free to choose any name you like here,
just make sure to bump this version here whenever you make changes to any of your asset files, not if
you change your service worker by the way,
then it will install the new version anyways,
just if you change anything about your assets you cache.
So now we need to use these variables
of course, I want to use them here when I open the static cache, I'll use cache static name and down
there
when I clean up the cache. There I want to remove everything
but the currently up-to-date static name. The same for dynamic name,
let's use it here in the clean up code and also down there where we open the cache to store our dynamic
content.
Now let's see if that works, if I
go back to the application and reload,
we installed a new service worker,
now let's activate it too by reloading the tab
and you should see that if you visit application, inspect your cache,
you only have dynamic-v2 and static-v4,
so the versions we set up here and the old versions were cleaned, were deleted.
You even see it here in the console,
removing removing.
So this is how we manage the cache versions and how we make sure that we always load the latest asset versions
and that we don't overpopulate our cache storage by removing unused caches.
Time to practice that before we then move on and dive deeper into various patterns for fetching data, being
more flexible about when we use the cache, when we reach out to the network and so on.